Hand Therapy Page:
Artus Physical Therapy offers comprehensive and individualized hand therapy by a Certified Hand Therapist *(CHT).  The goal of the Hand Therapy Department is to provide you with caring and effective treatment. To fully benefit from therapy, we would like you to become familiar with our services, to know what you can expect from us and what we expect from you.

PHILOSOPHY OF CARE
Our goal is to empower you with knowledge. By fully understanding your condition, you will be better able to participate in your own recovery. Feel free to ask questions about your diagnosis.
We strive to create a relaxed and supportive environment. Please let us know how we can make you more comfortable.

*What is a Certified Hand Therapist (CHT)?

A CHT…

Is an Occupational or Physical Therapist who specializes in the rehabilitation of hand, wrist, elbow, and shoulder conditions and injuries
Must have a minimum of 5 years of experience and 4,000 hours of time practicing and being mentored in the intricacies of the upper extremity
Must pass a rigorous examination of advanced clinical skills and theory in upper extremity rehabilitation
Works with patients to hasten their return to a productive lifestyle


What Conditions Benefit from Hand Therapy?

Fractures, dislocations, and sprains
Tendon and nerve injuries
Soft tissue injuries
Cumulative trauma disorders
Rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis
Carpal tunnel syndrome
Wounds and infections
Amputations, burns, and frostbite
Sports injuries
Dupuytren’s contracture
Tendonitis such as tennis elbow

Some of the many evaluation and treatment techniques we offer, including customized splinting:
Evaluation Techniques

  Range of Motion
  Grip and Pinch Strength
  Sensation
  Pain and Swelling
  Wound and Scar Status
  Functional Dexterity

Treatment Techniques

  Deep Tissue Massage
  Range of Motion Exercises
  Strengthening Exercises
  Modalities (electrical stimulation,
                ultrasound, heat, & ice)
  Wound and Pin Care
  Pain Management
  Scar and Edema Management
  Ergonomic Recommendations
  Joint Protection Techniques


Customized Splinting
